Add Date/Time lesson (#1571)
elixirschool/elixirschool: en/lessons/basics/date-time.md

---
version: 1.0.0
title: Date and Time
---

Working with time in Elixir.

{% include toc.html %}

## Time

> Elixir has some modules which work with time. Though it needs to be noted that this functionality is limited to working with UTC timezone.

Reviewer: Slight improvement:
```suggestion
Elixir has some modules which work with time. Though it needs to be noted that this functionality is limited to working with the UTC timezone only.
```
I would personally join these together even and re-write them slightly:
```suggestion
Elixir has dedicated modules for working with time, though it needs to be noted that this functionality is limited to working with the UTC timezone only.
```

Author: Thanks here as well!

Let's start with getting the current time:

```elixir
iex> Time.utc_now
~T[19:39:31.056226]
```

> Note that we have a sigil which can be used to create a `Time` struct as well:

Author: Done in the next text block. Thanks!

```elixir
iex> ~T[19:39:31.056226]
~T[19:39:31.056226]
```

It is easy to access parts of this struct:

```elixir
iex> t = ~T[19:39:31.056226]
~T[19:39:31.056226]
iex> t.hour
19
iex> t.minute
39
iex> t.day
** (KeyError) key :day not found in: ~T[19:39:31.056226]
```

But there is a catch: as you may have noticed, this struct only contains time within a day, no day/month/year data is present.

## Date

> Contary to `Time`, `Date` struct has info about the current date, without any info about current time.

Reviewer: Spelling and minor grammar suggestion:
```suggestion
Contrary to `Time`, the `Date` struct has info about the current date, without any info about current time.
```

```elixir
iex> Date.utc_today
~D[2028-10-21]
```

But it has some useful functions to work with dates:

```elixir
iex> {:ok, date} = Date.new(2020, 12,12)
{:ok, ~D[2020-12-12]}
iex> Date.day_of_week date
6
iex> Date.leap_year? date
true
```

> `day_of_week/1` calculates which day of week would be the given date. In this case it's saturday. `leap_year?/1` checks whether this is a leap year. Other functions can be found in [doc](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html).

Reviewer: Day names are always capitalised 😃 
```suggestion
`day_of_week/1` calculates which day of week would be the given date. In this case it's Saturday. `leap_year?/1` checks whether this is a leap year. Other functions can be found in [doc](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html).
```

## NaiveDateTime

There are two kinds of structs which contain both date and time at once in Elixir.
First of two is `NaiveDateTime`. Its disadvantage is lack of timezone support:

```elixir

> iex(15)> NaiveDateTime.utc_now

Reviewer: iex number 😄 
```suggestion
iex> NaiveDateTime.utc_now()
```

Author: Thanks, missed this!

~N[2029-01-21 19:55:10.008965]
```

> But it has both the current time and date, so you can play with adding time, for example:

Reviewer: Slightly better would be to start the sentence with `However, ` rather than `but`:
```suggestion
However, it has both current time and date, so you can play with adding time, for example:
```

```elixir

> iex> NaiveDateTime.add( ~N[2018-10-01 00:00:14], 30)

Reviewer: Extra whitespace:
```suggestion
iex> NaiveDateTime.add(~N[2018-10-01 00:00:14], 30)
```

~N[2018-10-01 00:00:44]
```

## DateTime

The second one, as you may have guessed from title of this section, is `DateTime`.
It does not have the limitations noted previously: it has both time and date, and supports timezones. But note about timezones from the official doc:

```
You will notice this module only contains conversion functions as well as functions that work on UTC. This is because a proper DateTime implementation requires a time zone database which currently is not provided as part of Elixir.
```

Also, note that you can create a DateTime instance from the NaiveDateTime, just by providing the timezone:

```
iex> DateTime.from_naive(~N[2016-05-24 13:26:08.003], "Etc/UTC")
{:ok, #DateTime<2016-05-24 13:26:08.003Z>}
```

> This is it! If you want to work with other advanced functions you may want to consider looking futher into docs for [Time](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Time.html), [Date](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html), [DateTime](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/DateTime.html). You should also consider [Timex](https://github.com/bitwalker/timex), which is powerful library to work with time in Elixir.

Reviewer: Suggestion: include a link to [`Calendar`](https://github.com/lau/calendar) in addition to `Timex`
